Have you ever been misjudged when Brother Parkin was serving in Puerto Rico, it happened
to him.
Brother North came down from Brooklyn for the very first international convention on the
island.
It was an exciting time for everyone, and Brother Parkin did his best to get everything
well organized.
But after the missionary meeting, Brother North assumed that transportation had not been
arranged for everyone to get back to the hotel, although, in fact, it had.
And later, he gave Brother Parkin some strong counsel about being better organized.
He even said that he was disappointed in him.
Well, Brother Parkin thought that said, I'm out of here, and he even told his wife later
to start packing.
But at the time, he says he didn't argue with Brother North or try to justify himself.
He admits that he did feel misjudged and was upset afterwards for quite a while.
Has something like that ever happened to you?
Likely it has.
It usually happens to all of us at some time.
When others misjudges, we might initially get upset, feel betrayed, or become discouraged
for a while.
We might worry that others don't see us as smart enough, strong enough, spiritual enough.
And what they said may threaten our whole identity.
So when something like that happens, what will help us to stay loyal to Jehovah?
Open your Bibles with me to Psalm 37.
The writer here is King David, and he well knew what it was like to be upset by injustice.
But more important, what he wrote is inspired of God, so we can trust it.
It can help us.
Let's start reading with verse three.
He says, trust in Jehovah and do what is good.
Reside in the earth and act with faithfulness.
When someone misunderstands us, our first instinct may be to prove ourselves right, but usually
that isn't very helpful.
David says we should focus on Jehovah and keep doing good.
Be faithful, be humble, continue caring for your assignments.
Jesus once said that wisdom is proved righteous by its works.
And many times it's our works over time, instead of trying to straighten the other person
out, that wins back their heart and our reputation.
Why can we trust Jehovah to help us in these situations?
Well, remember what happened to him in the Garden of Eden.
Jehovah based everything in creation, his entire sovereignty on love.
After he made Jesus, they made everything else together.
As each new angel and human was created, Jesus saw just how Jehovah treated them.
And that made him love Jehovah even more.
But then, as we know, Satan slandered Jehovah.
He didn't challenge his position or power.
He challenged his motives, God's love.
Now, can you imagine how hurtful that was to Jehovah in Jesus?
And this raised all sorts of questions.
How many others would believe Satan's accusations?
What would happen to Adam's offspring?
How would Jehovah's reputation be cleared and so on?
Now Jehovah is the Almighty, and he took immediate steps to resolve those issues, but it has
taken a lot of time to resolve them.
So if someone misjudges us, do you think Jehovah knows what we're going through?
He sure does.
He knows exactly what it feels like.
And as David says later in verse 18 in this Psalm, Jehovah is aware of what the blameless
go through.
Let's read verse 4.
This is find exquisite delight in Jehovah, and he will grant you the desires of your heart.
David's urging us here to find safety in Jehovah.
Because when we feel safe, it's easier for us to hear what others are saying to us.
We're less inclined to push our own views or justify ourselves.
In other Psalms, David talks about how Jehovah brought him into a place of safety.
And really, who makes this feel safer than Jehovah does?
If we are in Jehovah's place of safety, then we can hear almost anything without becoming
defensive.
Verse 5.
Commit your way to Jehovah, David says, rely on him, and he will act in your behalf.
In other words, let Jehovah lead you.
Once we fully commit ourselves to Jehovah, we won't feel lost or abandoned when we have
setbacks in life.
We know that he'll continue to guide and bless us just as he did Joseph and Hannah and David
and others.
Verses 23 and 24 of this Psalm say, Jehovah guides the steps of a man when he finds pleasure
in his way.
Although he may fall, he will not be hurled down for Jehovah supports him by the hand.
Per six.
He will make your righteousness shine like daybreak and your justice like the midday sun.
So Jehovah will either vindicate you or at the very least reassure you of his love.
He knows our motives and intentions, so if a relative or friend or an overseer misjudges
us, Jehovah will make his own decision.
The watchtower once said, if Jehovah wants to vindicate us in some matter, he can do so
at the proper time.
And if he chooses to do that, it will be obvious.
One translation puts this verse, it will become as clear as the noon day sun that you
were right.
But not all situations get resolved in that way, do they?
We love to hear those stories about Joseph and Hannah and David where the underdog ends
up on top.
But what about Mephibbusheth, Jeremiah or the Apostle Paul?
Were their reputations ever completely clear during their lifetime?
So it makes no sense to hold on to hurt feelings until Jehovah vindicates us.
It's so much better to resolve the matter now.
Notice verse 7, keep silent before Jehovah and wait expectantly for him, do not be upset
by the man who succeeds in carrying out his schemes.
The bottom line is we can't stay upset.
What though if we get counsel that doesn't seem to be 100% correct like in Brother
Parkinson's case?
Of course if you're accused of something serious, you should speak up at least to satisfy
your conscience.
But more often, after you pray about it and think about what was said, why not just
apply what you can?
Most counsel has at least something that we can benefit from.
And if there's something that still doesn't seem to fit, then wait patiently as the foot
note on verse 7 says, for Jehovah to clarify matters, or make things right.
In most cases, the only way for misunderstandings to get cleared up is with the passing of
time.
I like this quote from a brother years ago.
He said, if God has been willing to wait 6,000 years for his true character to be made
manifest, shouldn't we be able to wait a few brief years to have our motives and lives
now so sadly misunderstood, cleared of every misconception?
That's the key, isn't it?
Focus on Jehovah, and we can be happy even when we're misunderstood.
Always remember that he knows exactly how you feel, and in due time, he will act in
your behalf.
How did things turn out for Brother Parkinson and Brother Nor?
Well in his life story, Brother Parkinson says, the next time Maxine and I saw him about
6 months later, he invited us to his room and cooked the meal for us.
Well, it looks like Jehovah gave Brother Parkinson the requests of his heart, right?
In fact, he told me recently that he and Brother Nor became the best of friends.